One of the key or main challenges
if we want to become a more
customer-centered company is
that the entire organization,
I am talking about all the
people within the organization
are aligned with this, understand
it, share it, etc.
I speak to you of all people
from the first to the last.
And what I'm going to do is share
five tips that start from
our professional experience working
with many companies on projects
primarily aimed at helping them
evolve towards more customer-
centric companies.
Everything has to start
with leadership.
We have worked with managers, with
general directors, with councils,
with delegate councillors of all types,
there are people who understand it
better and there are people who understand
it worse.
This is very important because
obviously leadership is the engine
of the company and they have to understand
well that the customer is the main
asset and they have to worry
more about customers than about
the profit of that year,
for sales, etc.
I'll give you an example, and
that's Jeff Bezos.
Jeff Bezos, who always puts himself
as an example of a customer-
centered company, tells us that
they see their customers as if they
were the guests to a party and they
are the ones who have organized it.
And what happens when you organize
a party and have your guests,
who are dismissing you for your guests?
What you want is that every detail
is perfect, what you want is
that the customer experience is
ever better.
Well, since this is how Bezos tells us
that Amazon sees its customers, I think
it is very representative.
Well, the first point, we already
understand it, is that those who
make the decisions must be, they
must understand well what we are talking
about, what we have been
talking about in the last few days.
How will we get the rest
of the organization aligned
with these goals?
Well, you can get through different
training levers, culture change,
etc., but there is one of
them that we propose and is
that we encourage the entire
organization with
a repercussion on the retribution,
we encourage them
to think about customers.
How can we do this?
We know the most important
metrics of customer value,
such as customer lifetime
value, chance rate,
and NPS.
We can use the most common NPS
and incorporate it within
the bonus or within the variables,
in a percentage.
This, for example, traditions
have not been done, traditions
have always been encouraged
based on sales, sales
growth over the past
year, etc., and now more
and more what is done is
to encourage them
to think about customers
through NPS.
And this is being done by many
companies, Santander incorporated
it as one of the variables within
the remuneration package
to the board members, for
example, but we have
also read that companies like
Telefónica, like Vodafone,
etc., are incorporating the
NPS, all of them incorporate
the NPS and what they do is
integrate the NPS as one
of the key metrics throughout
the entire organization.
Let's go with the third of
the tips, it's too common in companies
that we get away from customers
and this is something that happens
very naturally.
Look, if you are the owner of this
restaurant is there, you know them,
you know their names, their families,
etc., but as soon as the company
grows something, I don't talk to
you already of large corporations,
as long as the companies grow
a little it seems like that
the directors, CEOs, etc., it seems
like they all tend to get away
from customers and that they are
other people who manage customers,
it's a tremendous mistake and
I don't want to even tell you
when we talk about large corporations,
here we have the headquarters
of a corporation, because all
those people who are inside
those offices are more and more
away from customers, not only
physically, but even through
all the information flows,
through all the processes,
each time the information
flows worse from customers
to people who make
decisions.
And look, there is a very good
initiative that we are seeing in
the last few years and there are
companies that do is to force that
a large part of the people who work
in the marketing departments for example,
have gone through sales, have gone
through having or by store for
example, have had before a direct
contact with customers, because so
you understand the business much
better, so the third advice is
this, don't get away from customers
and I'll be again naming Jeff Bezos,
because he always has an obsession
of being close to customers
and this is a bit anecdotal,
but it is real, there is
a bus, this is the personal email
of Jeff Bezos and in it you get
because thousands of suggestions
from customer service, etc.,
you can write to Jeff Bezos,
because he always has the
obsession of being close
to customers.
Many years ago he was the one who
received it and directly
or answered or derived it to the
corresponding departments and now
there are people who filter them,
but now they do get some and he
does what is rejected, in
some cases because that to the
corresponding departments,
but now it is already anecdotal,
obviously, because Jeff Bezos
has no time to do this, but
I want you to stay with the concept,
I want you to stay with the
concept that one of the
leaders of one of the most innovative
companies in the world
is obsessed with being
close to customers and what
it does is to keep having
that contact with them instead
of a mail account.
We've taken the last of
the tips and called it empower
the front line, that is, empower
to empower people who
are in contact with the customer,
which we sometimes
call the last mile.
You have to realize that one of
the determining factors of customer
experience really is the contact
with the people you have within
the company, which can
be in a restaurant are the
waiters, but sometimes because
in a telephone operator
are the people you talk
to on the phone or the
sellers, etc.
You have the idea.
Well, the issue is that in many
cases or it is too common
that people who are in contact
with customers, first,
are paid to those who have less
of the entire company, have
those who have less training
and above have no freedom
of action.
You have surely lived a thousand
times a sad experience when you
are called, when you call, I know,
your insurance company, your
telephone operator, etc.,
and it turns out that you can never
solve your doubts because they
have no capacity and they
pass you from one department
to another, etc.
Well, the issue is regardless
of this example, because not
everyone has the ability to change
something like that, it is with
what we have to stay with is
that people who are close to the
customer have to have the ability
and training and the desires
to deal with, to be able to establish
relationships, to establish
ties with customers and in
addition we have to give
them freedom.
I will summarize it all in the example
of the UPS.
If we think of the typical contact center
or customer service, well, how does
it usually be?
Poorly paid employees, without
freedom, who have almost
a script, who can't get out of
that, etc.
And they also do not
have the training to do so.
The case of UFO is the opposite.
What they decided was that they
wanted the customer experience to be
unique, that the customer service
in this case was unique in
the world.
And what they do is to file people with
more training, pay them more and give
them absolute freedom.
And of course, they have brought
it to the extreme, that anecdotes
have been generated such as that
a customer, for example, did not
find the shoes on the zapos page
and the person he was talking
to helped him buy them on a competition
page, for example.
People were waiting too
long and asked for a pizza.
There are examples of all kinds in
the case of zapos.
But what is the impact that
this has?
The impact of this is that the
customer experience is unique
and after a call of those
you are absolutely
loyal to zapos.
You have surely lived it.
I'm sure that when you have
a relationship with anyone within
a company you like to be spoken
to you naturally, you like
to be not stuck, you like
to have the ability to give
you solutions.
And that's why it's the last advice
we give and it's that you always think
that you don't forget that the
front line, the last mile is vital
and that you place people who have
the training and freedom to
manage or establish relationships
of certain linkage with
customers.